so US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
says the toll of Israel's war on
civilians in Gaza is far too high but he
added it is vital Israel achieve its
objective that October the 7th can never
happen again blinkin was speaking to
journalists in Tel Aviv after meeting
with Israeli leaders to discuss the
future of Gaza he said many Middle
Eastern nations are ready to invest in
gaza's future but only with a pathway to
a Palestinian
State many countries in the region um
are really prepared to to invest in a
number of ways to invest when the
conflict in Gaza is
over um in its reconstruction in its uh
in its security supporting uh
Palestinians in their in their
governance
but uh it is essential to them that
there also be a clear pathway to uh the
realization of Palestinian political
rights and a Palestinian state
now let's bring in alaz senior political
analyst Marwan Bashar once again joining
me on set now so Marwan first of all
your impressions of what you heard there
from the US Secretary State well look I
mean since Muhammad uh repeated a lot of
what uh the secretary has said or
summarize some of his points let me just
move directly to the critique of what
we've heard thus far I think we've heard
from three blink just now we've heard
from Israel's defense lawyer we've heard
from The Diplomatic spinner and we've
heard from the Imperial Envoy the
Imperial
Emissary the defense lawyer was more of
the same that we've heard three months
and this is ging this is the go this is
so disappointing so disappointing for
the American Top Diplomat after 3 months
of genocide to be repeating Israel's
lies is so sad and disappointing when he
said yet again when we already know that
this is proving to be wrong that Hamas
the militants have been firing from
hospitals and
schools we've heard about this the
hospitals being the headquarters and
we've then investigated and American
Media investigated International
Organization investigated all these
claims that have to be mostly wrong the
ones that were investigating and yet
again he is there to repeat more of the
same lies defending
Israel when when he's asked about
genocide he said meritless okay why did
he read the 78 page document what is
meritless in the
78 uh South African document and you
cannot you cannot argue against it by
saying other people are Geno Siders or
genoci you know I don't know the huis
for example okay if the H are genocidal
what does it have to do with the Merit
of the case that Israel has committed
genocide in Gaza anyway so he played the
defense lawyer the spinner was a bit
more
tricky he was asked since he just did a
trip to the region he was asked about
his conversations with the Arab leaders
and with the Israeli and what he heard
he heard he said he heard from the Arab
leaders that they are interested in two-
State solution and they are interested
to get involved in the Reconstruction of
Gaza if it's part of a serious
diplomatic effort to resolve the
Palestinian issue he actually said what
the Arabs are thinking
he then asked what does nah think about
that your vision of what two State
solution he said I'm in no position to
speak for
him what what what you just spoke for
the Arab leaders all six or seven of
them including the Turk leader so when
it comes to the Netanyahu he ducked it
he he spinned it he spun it and why did
he spin it he spun it because naan
disagrees Nao doesn't want the two stat
solution does n does not want the
Palestinian Authority he does not want
to leave Gaza he does not want to leave
the West Bank he want to stay occupying
power and continue to settle illegally
and there are many examples to the
towards that but the more most important
point because these are you know we've
had fun with those points is America
lies for Israel this has been going the
case now for three months I think the
most important point and this is the one
we're going to be talking about for
weeks months years to come it's where
the Imperial talks about the integrated
Regional
approach that's the main message from
this trip the integrated Regional
approach what does that mean it simply
means that he talked to all the Arab and
Muslim majority leaders including turkey
and the likes that he wants to bring the
five six main Middle Eastern countries
especially Saudi Arabia he wants Saudi
Arabia to normalize relations with
Israel secretary blinkin wants to reward
Israel for its genocide by having Saudi
Arabia normalized relations with Israel
all right in return for the promise of a
Palestinian State we're going to have to
leave it there for now much more on this
to come Marwan thanks very much